In this video,
we'll cover running tests in order.
Now, remember this from earlier, I said,
"Hey, here are the tests,
but don't worry about the order of the tests.
We'll cover that later."
Well, now is the time we'll actually cover
how to order tests.
Now, one question about order though that in general,
the order should not be a factor in unit tests.
There should be no dependency between tests.
And all tests should pass
regardless of the order in which they are run.
However, there are some use cases
when you'd actually want to control the order.
For example, if you want test to appear
in alphabetical order for reporting purposes,
or if you're sharing reports
with a project manager or the QA team,
or if you'd like to group tests
based on functionality or requirements.
So those are some possible use cases.
Now, if we run our test before making any changes,
just kind of running 'em as is,
here's a list of our tests,
and note here, this is not complete code.
I'm just showing the snippets for brevity.
Just so I can fit everything on a single slide.
And then when we run it, you'll see the actual test results.
Now, when you look at the list,
you're probably trying to figure out,
okay, what's the order?
Is it alphabetical?
Is it based on where the method appears in the class?
So on and so forth?
Well, according to the JUnit documentation,
by default the test classes and methods will be ordered
using an algorithm that's deterministic,
meaning that it's the same every time,
but intentionally non-obvious.
And this is from the actual JUnit documentation user guide.
So basically what this means
is that there is a default order,
but that order is undocumented.
So if you'd like to order something,
you can't depend on the defaults here.
You need to manually specify what the order is
for your test methods.
All righty,
so we can make use of this annotation, TestMethodOrder.
It'll configure the order/sort algorithm
for your given test methods.
And then we can specify the method order.
So we can say, sort the test methods alphanumerically
based on the display names.
We can also sort the test methods alphanumerically
based on the method names.
And then we can also randomly order the methods,
which is really fun.
And finally here,
we could order the test methods numerically
based on the order annotation.
And we'll see all of these examples in this video.
Let's start with the first example here
of ordering by display name.
So up top at the class level, I have TestMethodOrder,
and then I give MethodOrderer.DisplayName.class.
And then when we run the test,
it'll actually sort all of the tests by display name.
In the next example here we can order by method name.
So up top here, we have TestMethodOrder
and we use MethodOrderer.MethodName.
So now when we run our test,
it's going to sort it out alphanumerically
based on the actual method name.
And it's only really useful to sort by method name
when not using display name.
We don't want the display name to show up.
We only want to show the actual method name.
Just to kind of see
how everything is sorted alphanumerically.
We can also have it listed randomly
based on the method name.
So up top, we have TestMethodOrder,
MethodOrderer.Random.class.
And this is a great scenario. I really like this one.
You can make sure all of your tests pass
regardless of order.
So this confirms that there's no dependency between tests.
It's a great way to kind of mix it up
and just to show that, hey,
my tests can still run regardless of the order.
Even if they run in random order,
we can mix it up, no problem.
And we can run the test
and we can run it a couple of times actually,
and we can see the output here.
We can see all the different methods come out
in a random order based on that given scenario.
And we can also use display name in this scenario
since everything is random,
so the order really doesn't matter.
Now, another approach you can use
is you can make use of the order annotation.
So we'll manually specify the order of a test
with a given int number.
So the order with the lowest number
has the highest priority.
And also, negative numbers are allowed.
So in this example here in our test class,
we say TestMethodOrder,
and then we have MethodOrderer.OrderAnnotation.
And then in our code here,
we make use of the order annotation on our methods.
So here we have order of three and then order of one.
And then when we run it we see the output.
And note here, order one shows up first.
And then order three will show up second.
And remember, the lowest number has the highest priority.
Now you may wonder,
well, what about these methods here
that don't have an order annotation?
How are they ordered?
Well, they'll come after the methods
that have the order annotation on them,
but then their remaining order...
Again, going back to the JUnit docs,
by default classes and methods will be ordered
using an algorithm that's deterministic,
it happens the same every time,
but intentionally none obvious, all right?
So they kind of just follow
that undocumented or unpublished algorithm.
So if you'd like explicit order on a given method,
use the order annotation.
And then also remember earlier that I said,
"Negative numbers are allowed."
So in this example here, I have another test,
I have order negative seven.
So remember, the lowest number has the highest priority.
So negative seven is the lowest number in this example.
So negative seven, that test will execute first.
Then we have one.
And then we have three.
Again, lowest number, highest priority.
Then the other question you may have,
well, what about duplicate order values?
So if they're duplicate order values, then...
Back to the docs. (chuckles)
The test classes and methods will be ordered
using an algorithm that's deterministic
but intentionally non-obvious.
All right, so it's kind of up in the air
as far as how piece will work out.
Again, if you want to have order
then make use of the order annotation on a specific method.
And in this scenario, you give unique values.
And there's also some additional features
that are available.
So if you have multiple test classes
you can also order the classes.
You can also define a custom order implementation.
And you can also configure the default order
in a properties file.
And you can find these details
by looking at the JUnit user guide
at the link that I have here on the slide.
All righty, this looks really good.
Let's go ahead and move to the next video
and let's start writing some code.